# How and why I use AI generated code. 
A small repository with reasons why I use generated code.
## Background
I am a self taught developer of dubious skill, I have learned various languages over the years but have used JavaScript the most. Over the years, answers from places such as StackOverflow have been invaluable in learning how to properly implement specific problems that I was unable to understand by just reading the documentation. Before the inception of LLMs for code generation, those resources were key in my programming journey, however they often were not the *exact* solution I needed. I often found myself spending a few minutes to a few days figuring out how to properly implement the code in to my project.  
Due to the nature of being self taught, I do not have any sort of mentor to who I can pose questions if I ever run in to a problem understanding documentation. I never posted a question on a place like StackOverflow since it has a reputation for being dismissive is a question seemed to simple. This is where AI (LLMs) come in to play. 

## Why I use AI generated code.
AI, specifically LLMs, provide a resource where I can ask it specific questions. Personally, I have trouble learning if I only read the documentation and there are not in-context examples to show how a certain function or class works. AI is a tool that allows me to ask it a specific question and it will provide an answer within a few minutes, it does not care how simple or easy the question is, it simply provides the answer. 
## How I use AI generated code.
The main pitfall people will run in to when using AI is offloading all there thinking to AI. Any time they run in to a problem, ask the AI! Anytime something is confusing, ask the AI! If someone uses AI without first consulting the documentation, they likely will not retain the knowledge. I try to use AI as a last resort, first I check forums related to the language I am using or I check the documentation. After consulting those resources, I try and implement code in a way to test my understanding, if I still do not understand, repeat that process a few times. If I am still unable to find a solution to my problem, I then ask an LLM for help. The goal with using the AI is not to generate code that I can copy and paste, instead it so that I can look at its code and try and understand what the code does in context. Usually I am able to understand the solution and then I try and implement a similar solution in my code. At this time, I do not let AI view my code, the transactions are all one-directional.  
By using AI in this way, I do not to offload my thinking to the AI, rather I try and view it more as a teacher, or mentor, someone who is able to quickly scan documentation and other online resources to find a solution. Once a solution is generated by AI, I do not simply copy and paste the code in to my project, instead I read the code to try and understand why it generated code the code it did.  

**I understand that some of you reading this may think less of me using AI, however I feel like I have learned more than I otherwise would have if I never used AI.**  

We live in a world where LLMs exist, for the time being they are allowed to exist legally and I think it is prudent to learn how to use them properly as a tool. Not as a replacement for human developers but as a resource to solve problems that might otherwise take much longer to solve.  

I do not think AI should be used to generate critical code or core components of a project (ie security, main features), or to generate entire projects outright. Skilled developers should still be the ones to develop those things. I am under no delusion that I am a skilled developer, rather I use tools that others have created and implement them in ways that I find useful. 

---
None of the above statement was written by AI, it was a stream of consciousness written by me (paeniche) to justify my use of AI. Not everyone will agree with me, I myself used to hate the thought of AI generated code. However the comments from [Gabe Newall](https://www.pcgamer.com/software/ai/gabe-newell-says-ai-is-a-significant-technology-transition-on-a-par-with-the-emergence-of-computers-or-the-internet-and-will-be-a-cheat-code-for-people-who-want-to-take-advantage-of-it/) changed how I view it. AI is here whether we like it or not, and I should try and use it to improve my workflows without sacrificing my humanity. 
